---
title: Montreal All-Girl Hack Night
layout: page
---
looking for some ideas of projects to work on? here's a long list of ideas for inspiration. try any of these in any programming language you want! or, preferably, read this list, say "all these ideas are dumb! i have a way better idea!" and then do that. and maybe do a pull request and update this list :)

h3. programming languages

want to learn something about a new programming language? try doing anything below in one of {go, lisp, clojure, python, ruby, java, c++, c, javascript, haskell, erlang, postscript, perl, prolog, smalltalk, intercal, actionscript}. maybe check out some <a href="http://www.codecademy.com/">codecademy</a> classes.

some kinds of languages you might not have used before:

* functional languages: haskell, clojure, lisp, ocaml
* stack-based languages: postscript
* graphical languages: processing
* logic programming languages: prolog
* languages where you have to say 'please': intercal
* concurrent programming langues: erlang, go
* assembly languages

h3. music <span class="orange">&amp;</span> animations <span class="orange">&amp;</span> games

* generate midi files to create music
* make a simple game -- snake or frogger. javascript/python (using pygame) are good choices for this
* make animations (maybe with css3?)
* rotating cube / molecules / particles bouncing around the screen / infinitely growing fractals
* ants crawling around the screen
* googly eyes that follow the mouse around the screen. you know, like <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/xeyes">this</a>
* a double pendulum (a pendulum attached to a pendulum)
* implement your favorite screensaver
* write a text adventure (like the hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy)
* make videos from your instagram/flickr photos
* make a web version of your favorite board game (copyright issues may
  apply)
* write a multiplayer game server

h3. web development

* make a website using a web framework {django, rails, flask, grails,
  yesod, node, compojure}
* make yourself a personal website.
* make an animation with javascript visualization libraries. maybe some <a href="http://d3js.org/">d3</a>?
* make yourself a dashboard homepage with dashing: <a href="http://dashingdemo.herokuapp.com/sample">demo</a>, <a href="http://shopify.github.com/dashing/">github</a>
* make a presentation using <a href="http://bartaz.github.com/impress.js/#/bored">impress.js</a>
* display things on a map using google maps or openstreetmap or textile  
* <a href="https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!topic/comp.sys.mac.programmer.games/sxjw24vp-aq">here</a> is a cool usenet post from 1999 with some ideas

h3. playing with data

* nasa images-of-the-day
* stm <a href="http://www.stm.info/english/en-bref/a-developpeurs.htm">data</a>  
* ville de montreal <a href="http://donnees.ville.montreal.qc.ca/">data</a> (images, bike paths, library books, traffic lights, parking, garbage collection dates, ...)
* yahoo! <a href="http://developer.yahoo.com/answers/">answers </a> and other yahoo! open <a href="http://developer.yahoo.com/yql/guide/yql-opentables-chapter.html">data</a>
* github <a href="http://developer.github.com/v3/">data</a>
* <a href="http://openparliament.ca/api/">transcripts</a> from parliament
* all kinds of machine learning datasets are available <a href="http://lib.stat.cmu.edu/datasets/">here</a>
* download all your emails from gmail/hotmail and find out what kinds of things you say the most
* montreal <a href="http://montrealouvert.net/"> ouvert</a>
* do some of the competitions on <a href="http://www.kaggle.com/">kaggle</a>
* don't trust google with your data? write a program using <a href="http://www.twilio.com/">twilio</a> to email/text/call you a week before your friends' birthdays

h3. other

* fix an annoying bug in an open source program that you use
* have a dumb phone instead of a smartphone? find out how they're stored on your phone and find a way to automatically sync them
* write your own programming language, or a dsl/embedded dsl using clojure/lisp/scheme/haskell
* write a compiler for an existing programming language (brainfuck, shakespeare, ...)
* write an android app to find out how much you're moving. and text you to complain if you're not moving enough
* write a daemon to take a picture of yourself every day and stitch them together at the end of the year. and do image processing to make sure you're wearing clothes in the pictures :) 
* do exercises from <a href="http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/">sicp</a>
* write a jabber/google talk/aim/msn/irc chatbot. that messages you with a new recipe each day. or that reminds you to get up and walk around if you've been online for too long

h3. hardware

* make some leds blink using an arduino
* make a robot!
* find out how a remote control works
* make a turn signal cycling jacket with a <a href="http://thekneeslider.com/turn-signal-jackets-with-sewn-in-turn-signals/">lilypad</a>!
* buy a raspberry pi and hack the remote control for your camera, install xbmc and have your own cheap tv thing. can you maybe make a webserver for your thermostat?
